Edits to OpenShift Tutorial Doc (#755)
qdrant/landing_page: qdrant-landing/content/documentation/tutorials/student-rag-haystack-red-hat-openshift-hc.md

title: Private Chatbot for Interactive Learning
weight: 23 
---

# Private Chatbot for Interactive Learning

| Time: 120 min | Level: Advanced | Output: [GitHub](https://github.com/qdrant/) |
| --- | ----------- | ----------- |----------- |

Having already completed their online training, corporate employees might want to refer back old course materials. Most of this information is proprietary to the company, and manually searching through an entire library of materials takes time. However, a chatbot built on this knowledge can respond in the blink of an eye. 

With a simple RAG pipeline, you can build a private chatbot. In this tutorial, you will combine open source tools inside of a closed infrastructure and tie them together with a reliable framework. This custom solution lets you run a chatbot without public internet access. You will be able to keep sensitive data secure without compromising privacy.

![OpenShift](/documentation/tutorials/student-rag-haystack-red-hat-openshift-hc/openshift-diagram.png)
**Figure 1:** The LLM and Qdrant Hybrid Cloud are containerized as separate services. Haystack combines them into a RAG pipeline and exposes the API via Hayhooks.

## Components

> To maintain complete data isolation, we need to limit ourselves to open-source tools and use them in a private environment, such as [Red Hat OpenShift](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift). The pipeline will run internally and will be inaccessible from the public internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To maintain complete data isolation, we need to limit ourselves to open-source tools and use them in a private environment, such as [Red Hat OpenShift](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift). The pipeline will run internally and will be inaccessible from the internet.
```

Isn't the internet always public?

- **Dataset:** [Red Hat Interactive Learning Portal](https://developers.redhat.com/learn), an online library of RedHat course materials.
- **LLM:** `mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.1`, deployed as a standalone service on OpenShift.
- **Embedding Model:** `BAAI/bge-m3`, lightweight LLM deployed from within the Haystack pipeline.
- **Vector DB:** [Qdrant Hybrid Cloud](https://qdrant.tech) running on OpenShift.
- **Framework:** [Haystack 2.x](https://haystack.deepset.ai/) to connect all and [Hayhooks](https://docs.haystack.deepset.ai/docs/hayhooks) to serve the app through HTTP endpoints.

### Procedure
The [Haystack](https://haystack.deepset.ai/) framework leverages two pipelines, which combine our components sequentially to process data. 

1. The **Indexing Pipeline** will run offline in batches, when new data is added or updated. 

> 2. The **Search Pipeline** will retrieves information from Qdrant and uses an LLM to produce an answer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The **Search Pipeline** will retrieve information from Qdrant and use an LLM to produce an answer.
```
